---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Introduction to brewing
categories: [intro]
title: Brewing 101
---
# How does brewing work?

To better understand the application and the requirements it aims to address, the following secion will briefly walk you through the brewing process and important parameters during each step.

**1. Preparation**
After carefully cleaning the equipment (a kattle, a large spoon, pipes and valves, ...) it is time to weight the grains.
For brewing we use crushed malt of different types.

**2. Mash In**
The grains are first mashed in a large bowl. Water is heated to a certain temperature and the grains are added to the water. It is important to keep the water at a specific temperature during the mash in process. The water temperature should be monitored and the water should be heated again if necessary. The water is then filtered to remove the impuritys.

**3. Sparge water**
Additional water is added and drained through the mash tun.

**4. Boil**
After the mash out the water is heated until it is boiling. The water should boil for an exact amount of time between 60 and 90 minutes. At certain points in time we add hops to the water. Depending on the type of beer we add different hops at different points in time.

**5. Fermentation**
Fermentation is the process of converting the young beer into alcohol. By adding yeast to the filtered young beer after boiling in step 4, the remaining sugar is converted into alcohol. Now we let the young beer rest until it is ready to be filled into bottles. The right time to fill the bottles is reached when the remaining sugar is at a certain level (again depending on the type of beer).

**6. Bottling**
Before botteling we add glucose to the fermented beer. We fill the beer to bottles and we label them with the name of the beer. After another 1-4 weeks the beer is ready to be consumed.

**7. Enjoy :)**

## Important parameters
- Temerature
- Time
- Measurements (water, malt, hops, yeast, ...)
- Gravity